README.md, before:

# gadi_cheatsheet
- user guides https://opus.nci.org.au/
- username and login set up, and project information on https://opus.nci.org.au/
	- Invited to two projects from Jo, dz70 and tr07

to log in
```bash
ssh dt9853@gadi.nci.org.au
```

check disk space allocation
```bash
nci_account
```
The home directory does not have much disk space
```
/home/566/dt9853
```
Jobs submitted from the /scratch directory
files are deleted every 3 months
```
/scratch/tr07/dt9853/
```
project specific drive, for data storage
```
/g/data/tr07
```
the project code, is how billing is determined, I've been given access to two groups
```bash
id
uid=23676(dt9853) gid=9174(tr07) groups=9174(tr07),566(U.Adel),9906(dz70)
```
# PBS command cheat sheet
- gadi uses the PBS job scheduler

List nodes and their features

```bash
pbsnodes
```
Run an interactive job on a node with 4 RTX 2080 GPUs, 8 CPUs, 90GB of RAM, for 2 hours

```bash
qsub -l ngpus=4 -l ncpus=8 -l mem=90G -l gputype=RTX2080 -l walltime=02:00:00   -I
```

Alternatively this can be compressed into

```bash
qsub -l ngpus=4:ncpus=8:mem=90G:gputype=RTX2080:walltime=02:00:00 -I
```

The -I flag indicates the interactive aspect of the job.

Cancel a job

```bash
qdel -p <job-id>
```
List information on queues

```bash
qstat
```
List current jobs owned by $USER

```bash
 qstat -u $USER
```
If you want to export variables from the current environment to the job, pass the -V flag which passes all current environment variables to the job's environment.

If you want to run one job after another, you can use the depend additional attribute, e.g.
```bash
qsub -W depend=afterok:<first-job-id> -l ncpus=8:ngpus=4:mem=90G:walltime=02:00:00 job-script.sh
```

# PBS job submission

You can also request space on multiple compute nodes by adding the directive -l jobfs to your job script, for example,
```
#PBS -l jobfs=100GB

```
The limit on $PBS_JOBFS is 400 GiB.The limit on $PBS_JOBFS is 400 GiB.

example PBS header 1
```bash
#!/bin/bash

#PBS -l ncpus=1
#PBS -l mem=16GB
#PBS -l jobfs=2GB
#PBS -q copyq
#PBS -P tr07
#PBS -l walltime=24:00:00
#PBS -l storage
```

example PBS header 2

```bash
#PBS -l mem=16GB
#PBS -l jobfs=2GB
#PBS -q normal
#PBS -P dz70
#PBS -l walltime=10:00:00
#PBS -l storage=scratch/tr07+gdata/dz70
#PBS -l wd


```
# mass data
Tape Filesystem - massdata

some simple commands that can help while navigating massdata. These commands can be run from the login nodes and begin with the prefix 'mdss', for example
```
man mdss
mdss put
mdss ls
mdss get
mdss mkdir
mdss rmdir
```
some examples

```bash
mdss -P tr07 ls -lh Nanopore_Level_1
```

running mdss get as a PBS job on copyq
```bash
#!/bin/bash

#PBS -l ncpus=1
#PBS -l mem=16GB
#PBS -l jobfs=2GB
#PBS -q copyq
#PBS -P tr07
#PBS -l walltime=10:00:00
#PBS -l storage=massdata/tr07+scratch/dz70
#PBS -l wd

cd /scratch/dz70/dt9853/from_mdss/Nanopore_Level_1

mdss -P tr07 get -r Nanopore_Level_1/raw_data

echo "finished 1"

```
# check storage

```
nci_account -P tr07
```

# nf-core

# nf-core_setup_gadi
https://github.com/nf-core/configs/blob/master/docs/nci_gadi.md

nci_account -P tr07


running nf-core

- needs to run on /scratch , not home or gdata
- softlinks to data (e.g. fastqs, or references) not on scratch fail
- screen doesn't seems to work properly between different login nodes.
- I've been kicking of nextflow screipts via a pbs script submitted to the copyq queeue, since only the login/head nodes have internet access to pull down
- singularity cache dir, was set up on ~/ but this filled up very quick, 
- .nextflow directory with nf-core assets is still ~/.nextflow
- module load nextflow singularity

- example kickoff script
qsub run.pbs.sh

```
#!/bin/bash

#PBS -l ncpus=1
#PBS -l mem=16GB
#PBS -l jobfs=2GB
#PBS -q copyq
#PBS -P tr07
#PBS -l walltime=10:00:00
#PBS -l wd

module purge
module load nextflow singularity
BaseDir='/scratch/tr07/dt9853/projects/20250303_CDK46_RNAseq'
JobName='nf_RNAseq'
RunDir=${BaseDir}/${JobName}
OutDir=${RunDir}/outs_${JobName}

cd ${RunDir}
mkdir -p ${OutDir}

nextflow run nf-core/rnaseq \
        -profile singularity,nci_gadi \
        -r 3.14.0 \
        --input ${RunDir}/nfSampleSheet.csv \
        --outdir ${OutDir} \
        --fasta /scratch/tr07/dt9853/references/GRCh38_Ensembl/Homo_sapiens.GRCh38.dna_sm.primary_assembly.fa.gz \
        --gtf /scratch/tr07/dt9853/references/GRCh38_Ensembl/Homo_sapiens.GRCh38.113.gtf.gz \
        --skip_dupradar \
        --skip_qualimap \
        --save_reference \
        -resume \
> std.out_${JobName}.txt

```
- addition config required for running on gadi
- 

- the institutional config set most of the environment, but extra parameters need to be set with this
- Documentation : https://github.com/nf-core/configs/blob/master/docs/nci_gadi.md
```
process {
  executor = 'pbspro'
  queue = 'normal'
  project = 'dz70'
  storage = 'scratch/dz70+gdata/dz70'
       
  withName: 'task1' {
    cpus = 2
    time = '1d'
    memory = '8GB'
  }
}
```



# Setting default project
modify ~/.config/gadi-login.conf
```
PROJECT tr07
SHELL /bin/bash
```
- this is read in nextflow processes

## copying between projects
- pbs header for moving data between projects
- submit with qsub move.sh

```bash
#PBS -l mem=16GB
#PBS -l jobfs=2GB
#PBS -q normal
#PBS -P dz70
#PBS -l walltime=10:00:00
#PBS -l storage=scratch/tr07+gdata/dz70
#PBS -l wd
mv -v /scratch/tr07/ /g/data/dz70/
```

# persistent sessions
- a substitute for screen on gadi, for long running jobs with little memory
- help page https://opus.nci.org.au/spaces/Help/pages/241927941/Persistent+Sessions...

```bash
# Starting Sessions
persistent-sessions start [ -p <project> ] <name>

# Connecting to Sessions
ssh <name>.<user>.<project>.ps.gadi.nci.org.au

# Listing Running Sessions
persistent-sessions list [ -p <project> ] [ <uuid> ]

# Terminating Sessions
persistent-sessions kill <uuid>

# finding session names
ls -l  ~/.persistent-sessions/

```
- debugging 
- I had the following error
```
ssh: Could not resolve hostname atacseq.dt9853.dz70.ps.gadi.nci.org.au: Name or service not known
```
- found this from the help page
```
The first time you connect to a session you will see SSH configuring the host key for the session. This will not happen on future connections.
The SSH configuration on Gadi will automatically select the appropriate SSH keys and ports to connect to your persistent session. For more advanced users, if you have edited your SSH configuration file ensure that you do not have configuration in your own ~/.ssh/config file on Gadi that may prevent this working correctly.
```








# setting up rclone
- followed these instructions
- https://rclone.org/sftp/

installed rclone on my mac
```bash
cd ~/Downloads
sudo -v ; curl https://rclone.org/install.sh | sudo bash
# ran config setup, followed prompts
rclone config
```
-this was the summary messeage ofter setting up config
```
Configuration complete.
Options:
- type: sftp
- host: gadi.nci.org.au
- user: dt9853
- pass: *** ENCRYPTED ***
- ask_password: true
- shell_type: unix
- known_hosts_file: ~/.ssh/known_hosts
```
pw: same as gadi

- example commands after intallation and config setup
```bash
rclone lsd gadi:/
rclone mkdir gadi:/home/566/dt9853/rclonetest
rclone ls gadi:/scratch/dz70/dt9853/projects/20250408_P53sra_AlanaWelm_RNAseq/nf_RNAseq/outs/star_salmon/bams
```

- made mountpoint on mac with rclone
- just mounting /scratch
```bash
mkdir -p ~/gadi_rclone_mount/scratch_dz70_projects
cd  ~/gadi_rclone_mount/scratch_dz70_projects

rclone mount gadi:/scratch/dz70/dt9853/projects/ ~/gadi_rclone_mount/scratch_dz70_projects

```
- got this error message from FUSE
"Please open the Privacy & Security System Settings and allow loading system software from developer "Benjamin Fleischer". "
- had to change systems settings, following prompts, this also required a reboot of the mac in recovery mode/security utility to allow apps from developers (this was tedious)


# Rstudio with gadi
- adapted from Elyssa's notes

# Setting up my R 4.2 to try out some multi-omics clustering analysis options on Gadi

```bash
# needed to do the following to overcome a compiling related error:
#mkdir /scratch/[PROJECT]/[USER]/.R
mkdir /scratch/dz70/dt9853/.R
nano /scratch/dz70/dt9853/.R/Makevars
## add the following line and save file;
CXXFLAGS += -wd308

# Set up a user specific R_Lib
# something like this:
#mkdir /g/data/[PROJECT]/[USER]/R_Libs
#mkdir /g/data/[PROJECT]/[USER]/R_Libs/[R.VERSION]
mkdir /g/data/dz70/dt9853/Compute_Assets/Software/R_Libs/
mkdir  /g/data/dz70/dt9853/Compute_Assets/Software/R_Libs/4.2.1

# set user specific dir for RStudio server session temp data
# this prevents the default home directory from getting full and running out of storage as it only has 10Gb allocated.
#mkdir /scratch/[PROJECT]/[USER]/xdg_data_home
mkdir /scratch/dz70/dt9853/xdg_data_home

## need to load specific version of the intel compiler to be compatible with your R version
module load R/4.2.1
module load intel-compiler/2021.6.0

#Start R 
R

#setup your .libPath() so R can see both the shared library and your personal user R library
## see default libPath;
.libPaths()
## Add your user specific libPath;
.libPaths(c("/g/data/dz70/dt9853/Compute_Assets/Software/R_Libs/4.2.1", "/apps/R/4.2.1/lib64/R/library"))
R_MAKEVARS_USER <- "/scratch/dz70/dt9853/.R/Makevars"

## Install packages
## installing requirements for shinyngs
install.packages("remotes")
install.packages("markdown")
remotes::install_github("pinin4fjords/shinyngs")

## after sucessful install, quit and save your workspace
quit()

## respond "y" when promped to save.

# head over to the ARE dashboard and navigate to the RStudio server app
# https://are.nci.org.au/pun/sys/dashboard > "interactive apps" > "RStudio"
#in "Advanced Options"; under the "Modules" heading you can add a space-separated list of modules to load, you'll need to load the same version of R you installed your packages to;
R/4.2.1 intel-compiler/2021.6.0

# Also under the "Environment variables" heading, you can add a space-separated list of environment variables to define (via pbs 'qsub -v') e.g. NAME="VALUE".
# you will need to specify ther Dirs for your auto generated RStudio session temp data to be written and your R_LIBS_USER for your user specific packages;
XDG_DATA_HOME="/scratch/dz70/dt9853/xdg_data_home",R_LIBS_USER="/g/data/dz70/dt9853/Compute_Assets/Software/R_Libs/4.2.1"

# make sure project is what you want, e.g. dz70
# scratch/dz70+gdata/dz70
# also just incase put your "Jobfs size" as 100GB

# on https://are.nci.org.au, after job is requested, a 'connect to RStudio Server' button appears

# should be able to see the job submitted by PBS
qstat
```

# Data Mover Node
- copying data using the gadi data mover node example

```bash
scp -v dt9853@gadi-dm.nci.org.au:/scratch/dz70/dt9853/for_filesender/Hi-C_Level_1.tar ./
```

Commit message:

dealing with nextflow 137 memory errors

README.md, after:

# gadi_cheatsheet
- user guides https://opus.nci.org.au/
- username and login set up, and project information on https://opus.nci.org.au/
	- Invited to two projects from Jo, dz70 and tr07

to log in
```bash
ssh dt9853@gadi.nci.org.au
```

check disk space allocation
```bash
nci_account
```
The home directory does not have much disk space
```
/home/566/dt9853
```
Jobs submitted from the /scratch directory
files are deleted every 3 months
```
/scratch/tr07/dt9853/
```
project specific drive, for data storage
```
/g/data/tr07
```
the project code, is how billing is determined, I've been given access to two groups
```bash
id
uid=23676(dt9853) gid=9174(tr07) groups=9174(tr07),566(U.Adel),9906(dz70)
```
# PBS command cheat sheet
- gadi uses the PBS job scheduler

List nodes and their features

```bash
pbsnodes
```
Run an interactive job on a node with 4 RTX 2080 GPUs, 8 CPUs, 90GB of RAM, for 2 hours

```bash
qsub -l ngpus=4 -l ncpus=8 -l mem=90G -l gputype=RTX2080 -l walltime=02:00:00   -I
```

Alternatively this can be compressed into

```bash
qsub -l ngpus=4:ncpus=8:mem=90G:gputype=RTX2080:walltime=02:00:00 -I
```

The -I flag indicates the interactive aspect of the job.

Cancel a job

```bash
qdel -p <job-id>
```
List information on queues

```bash
qstat
```
List current jobs owned by $USER

```bash
 qstat -u $USER
```
If you want to export variables from the current environment to the job, pass the -V flag which passes all current environment variables to the job's environment.

If you want to run one job after another, you can use the depend additional attribute, e.g.
```bash
qsub -W depend=afterok:<first-job-id> -l ncpus=8:ngpus=4:mem=90G:walltime=02:00:00 job-script.sh
```

# PBS job submission

You can also request space on multiple compute nodes by adding the directive -l jobfs to your job script, for example,
```
#PBS -l jobfs=100GB

```
The limit on $PBS_JOBFS is 400 GiB.The limit on $PBS_JOBFS is 400 GiB.

example PBS header 1
```bash
#!/bin/bash

#PBS -l ncpus=1
#PBS -l mem=16GB
#PBS -l jobfs=2GB
#PBS -q copyq
#PBS -P tr07
#PBS -l walltime=24:00:00
#PBS -l storage
```

example PBS header 2

```bash
#PBS -l mem=16GB
#PBS -l jobfs=2GB
#PBS -q normal
#PBS -P dz70
#PBS -l walltime=10:00:00
#PBS -l storage=scratch/tr07+gdata/dz70
#PBS -l wd


```
# mass data
Tape Filesystem - massdata

some simple commands that can help while navigating massdata. These commands can be run from the login nodes and begin with the prefix 'mdss', for example
```
man mdss
mdss put
mdss ls
mdss get
mdss mkdir
mdss rmdir
```
some examples

```bash
mdss -P tr07 ls -lh Nanopore_Level_1
```

running mdss get as a PBS job on copyq
```bash
#!/bin/bash

#PBS -l ncpus=1
#PBS -l mem=16GB
#PBS -l jobfs=2GB
#PBS -q copyq
#PBS -P tr07
#PBS -l walltime=10:00:00
#PBS -l storage=massdata/tr07+scratch/dz70
#PBS -l wd

cd /scratch/dz70/dt9853/from_mdss/Nanopore_Level_1

mdss -P tr07 get -r Nanopore_Level_1/raw_data

echo "finished 1"

```
# check storage

```
nci_account -P tr07
```

# nf-core

# nf-core_setup_gadi
https://github.com/nf-core/configs/blob/master/docs/nci_gadi.md

nci_account -P tr07


running nf-core

- needs to run on /scratch , not home or gdata
- softlinks to data (e.g. fastqs, or references) not on scratch fail
- screen doesn't seems to work properly between different login nodes.
- I've been kicking of nextflow screipts via a pbs script submitted to the copyq queeue, since only the login/head nodes have internet access to pull down
- singularity cache dir, was set up on ~/ but this filled up very quick, 
- .nextflow directory with nf-core assets is still ~/.nextflow
- module load nextflow singularity

- example kickoff script
qsub run.pbs.sh

```
#!/bin/bash

#PBS -l ncpus=1
#PBS -l mem=16GB
#PBS -l jobfs=2GB
#PBS -q copyq
#PBS -P tr07
#PBS -l walltime=10:00:00
#PBS -l wd

module purge
module load nextflow singularity
BaseDir='/scratch/tr07/dt9853/projects/20250303_CDK46_RNAseq'
JobName='nf_RNAseq'
RunDir=${BaseDir}/${JobName}
OutDir=${RunDir}/outs_${JobName}

cd ${RunDir}
mkdir -p ${OutDir}

nextflow run nf-core/rnaseq \
        -profile singularity,nci_gadi \
        -r 3.14.0 \
        --input ${RunDir}/nfSampleSheet.csv \
        --outdir ${OutDir} \
        --fasta /scratch/tr07/dt9853/references/GRCh38_Ensembl/Homo_sapiens.GRCh38.dna_sm.primary_assembly.fa.gz \
        --gtf /scratch/tr07/dt9853/references/GRCh38_Ensembl/Homo_sapiens.GRCh38.113.gtf.gz \
        --skip_dupradar \
        --skip_qualimap \
        --save_reference \
        -resume \
> std.out_${JobName}.txt

```
- addition config required for running on gadi
- 

- the institutional config set most of the environment, but extra parameters need to be set with this
- Documentation : https://github.com/nf-core/configs/blob/master/docs/nci_gadi.md
```
process {
  executor = 'pbspro'
  queue = 'normal'
  project = 'dz70'
  storage = 'scratch/dz70+gdata/dz70'
       
  withName: 'task1' {
    cpus = 2
    time = '1d'
    memory = '8GB'
  }
}
```
# nextflow 137 memory errors
- Reference https://nf-co.re/rnaseq/3.11.0/docs/usage
- a few ways to get around memory issues
- eg  
```
Process `NFCORE_RNASEQ:RNASEQ:BAM_RSEQC:RSEQC_READDUPLICATION (25-03926)` terminated with an error exit status (137)
```
1. fix with a global parameter --max_memory 256.GB *default 128.GB
2. exclude the process if possible (if it's just a qc step), only available for some pipelines
```
--rseqc_modules bam_stat,inner_distance,infer_experiment,junction_annotation,junction_saturation,read_distribution
--skip_rseqc
```
3. specify another config requesting more resources for that particular config
- e.g. using the -c command
```
process {
    withName: 'NFCORE_RNASEQ:RNASEQ:ALIGN_STAR:STAR_ALIGN' {
        memory = 100.GB
    }
}
```

A few mays to identify the memory usage of a process and that this is what is causing the failure

1. 137 error
2. gadi-nf-core-trace- file output the memory usage of a failed processes
3. qstat -a   ; this prints the max memory usage of each running process
4. the parameter documentation on nf-core
5. the git repo of that nf-core pipeline, pulled to .nextflow

# Setting default project
modify ~/.config/gadi-login.conf
```
PROJECT tr07
SHELL /bin/bash
```
- this is read in nextflow processes

## copying between projects
- pbs header for moving data between projects
- submit with qsub move.sh

```bash
#PBS -l mem=16GB
#PBS -l jobfs=2GB
#PBS -q normal
#PBS -P dz70
#PBS -l walltime=10:00:00
#PBS -l storage=scratch/tr07+gdata/dz70
#PBS -l wd
mv -v /scratch/tr07/ /g/data/dz70/
```

# persistent sessions
- a substitute for screen on gadi, for long running jobs with little memory
- help page https://opus.nci.org.au/spaces/Help/pages/241927941/Persistent+Sessions...

```bash
# Starting Sessions
persistent-sessions start [ -p <project> ] <name>

# Connecting to Sessions
ssh <name>.<user>.<project>.ps.gadi.nci.org.au

# Listing Running Sessions
persistent-sessions list [ -p <project> ] [ <uuid> ]

# Terminating Sessions
persistent-sessions kill <uuid>

# finding session names
ls -l  ~/.persistent-sessions/

```
- debugging 
- I had the following error
```
ssh: Could not resolve hostname atacseq.dt9853.dz70.ps.gadi.nci.org.au: Name or service not known
```
- found this from the help page
```
The first time you connect to a session you will see SSH configuring the host key for the session. This will not happen on future connections.
The SSH configuration on Gadi will automatically select the appropriate SSH keys and ports to connect to your persistent session. For more advanced users, if you have edited your SSH configuration file ensure that you do not have configuration in your own ~/.ssh/config file on Gadi that may prevent this working correctly.
```








# setting up rclone
- followed these instructions
- https://rclone.org/sftp/

installed rclone on my mac
```bash
cd ~/Downloads
sudo -v ; curl https://rclone.org/install.sh | sudo bash
# ran config setup, followed prompts
rclone config
```
-this was the summary messeage ofter setting up config
```
Configuration complete.
Options:
- type: sftp
- host: gadi.nci.org.au
- user: dt9853
- pass: *** ENCRYPTED ***
- ask_password: true
- shell_type: unix
- known_hosts_file: ~/.ssh/known_hosts
```
pw: same as gadi

- example commands after intallation and config setup
```bash
rclone lsd gadi:/
rclone mkdir gadi:/home/566/dt9853/rclonetest
rclone ls gadi:/scratch/dz70/dt9853/projects/20250408_P53sra_AlanaWelm_RNAseq/nf_RNAseq/outs/star_salmon/bams
```

- made mountpoint on mac with rclone
- just mounting /scratch
```bash
mkdir -p ~/gadi_rclone_mount/scratch_dz70_projects
cd  ~/gadi_rclone_mount/scratch_dz70_projects

rclone mount gadi:/scratch/dz70/dt9853/projects/ ~/gadi_rclone_mount/scratch_dz70_projects

```
- got this error message from FUSE
"Please open the Privacy & Security System Settings and allow loading system software from developer "Benjamin Fleischer". "
- had to change systems settings, following prompts, this also required a reboot of the mac in recovery mode/security utility to allow apps from developers (this was tedious)


# Rstudio with gadi
- adapted from Elyssa's notes

# Setting up my R 4.2 to try out some multi-omics clustering analysis options on Gadi

```bash
# needed to do the following to overcome a compiling related error:
#mkdir /scratch/[PROJECT]/[USER]/.R
mkdir /scratch/dz70/dt9853/.R
nano /scratch/dz70/dt9853/.R/Makevars
## add the following line and save file;
CXXFLAGS += -wd308

# Set up a user specific R_Lib
# something like this:
#mkdir /g/data/[PROJECT]/[USER]/R_Libs
#mkdir /g/data/[PROJECT]/[USER]/R_Libs/[R.VERSION]
mkdir /g/data/dz70/dt9853/Compute_Assets/Software/R_Libs/
mkdir  /g/data/dz70/dt9853/Compute_Assets/Software/R_Libs/4.2.1

# set user specific dir for RStudio server session temp data
# this prevents the default home directory from getting full and running out of storage as it only has 10Gb allocated.
#mkdir /scratch/[PROJECT]/[USER]/xdg_data_home
mkdir /scratch/dz70/dt9853/xdg_data_home

## need to load specific version of the intel compiler to be compatible with your R version
module load R/4.2.1
module load intel-compiler/2021.6.0

#Start R 
R

#setup your .libPath() so R can see both the shared library and your personal user R library
## see default libPath;
.libPaths()
## Add your user specific libPath;
.libPaths(c("/g/data/dz70/dt9853/Compute_Assets/Software/R_Libs/4.2.1", "/apps/R/4.2.1/lib64/R/library"))
R_MAKEVARS_USER <- "/scratch/dz70/dt9853/.R/Makevars"

## Install packages
## installing requirements for shinyngs
install.packages("remotes")
install.packages("markdown")
remotes::install_github("pinin4fjords/shinyngs")

## after sucessful install, quit and save your workspace
quit()

## respond "y" when promped to save.

# head over to the ARE dashboard and navigate to the RStudio server app
# https://are.nci.org.au/pun/sys/dashboard > "interactive apps" > "RStudio"
#in "Advanced Options"; under the "Modules" heading you can add a space-separated list of modules to load, you'll need to load the same version of R you installed your packages to;
R/4.2.1 intel-compiler/2021.6.0

# Also under the "Environment variables" heading, you can add a space-separated list of environment variables to define (via pbs 'qsub -v') e.g. NAME="VALUE".
# you will need to specify ther Dirs for your auto generated RStudio session temp data to be written and your R_LIBS_USER for your user specific packages;
XDG_DATA_HOME="/scratch/dz70/dt9853/xdg_data_home",R_LIBS_USER="/g/data/dz70/dt9853/Compute_Assets/Software/R_Libs/4.2.1"

# make sure project is what you want, e.g. dz70
# scratch/dz70+gdata/dz70
# also just incase put your "Jobfs size" as 100GB

# on https://are.nci.org.au, after job is requested, a 'connect to RStudio Server' button appears

# should be able to see the job submitted by PBS
qstat
```

# Data Mover Node
- copying data using the gadi data mover node example

```bash
scp -v dt9853@gadi-dm.nci.org.au:/scratch/dz70/dt9853/for_filesender/Hi-C_Level_1.tar ./
```
